these are grizzly bears as you can see
they have big teeth and giant claws but
once you get to know them better they're
not as ferocious as you might think they
play a critical role in the function of
our ecosystems but unfortunately their
habitat is dwindling fast in order to
protect them it's important to know why
do Grizzlies choose certain areas to
inhabit in the first place
let's look at a threatened population of
bears living in the Rocky Mountains of
Canada
remember those giant claws well they're
not for what you might think they have
evolved specifically for digging up
energy rich roots it turns out the
Grizzlies eat a lot of plants the ones
that live here are almost vegetarians
you see unlike other predators Grizzlies
have diverse diets that can include up
to 90% vegetation however maintaining a
diet of plants can be difficult in these
northern latitudes you have distinct
seasons where it's really nice and green
for part of the year and really cold for
the other part if you eat plants you
have almost nothing to eat for the cold
part of the year so you either have to
migrate like geese or hibernate like
ground squirrels grizzly bears hibernate
their behaviors are closely synchronized
with the seasons during the summer they
have to pack on enough body fat to
survive the winter without it they will
either starve or not have enough energy
to successfully produce offspring but
when you eat mostly plants is hard to
gain a lot of weight you need to be a
highly effective forager so bears
tightly follow the schedule of the
plants and harvest them like crops at
the point in time when they are the most
nutritious this will happen in different
places at different times in autumn a
large male grizzly can eat up to 200,000
berries in a single day therefore to
protect these bears researchers want to
take a closer look at the seasonal
interaction between Grizzlies and plants
to identify areas of the highest quality
habitat this begins 700 kilometers up in
space up here to NASA satellites carry
sensors that are sensitive to the light
reflected by vegetation every species of
plant reflects a unique combination of
wavelengths called spectral signatures
but act like different chords on a piano
but use light instead of sound these
signatures are recorded by the
satellites every day and are combined
like frames in a movie so you can watch
the vegetation grow over an entire
summer simultaneously the movements of
bears wearing GPS collars are monitored
to see how they respond to the ebb and
flow of nutrition throughout their
habitats now instead of ordinary static
habitat Maps these dynamic time-lapse
habitat maps can be used for grizzly
bear conservation in a number of ways
first they help calculate the carrying
capacity of the study area in other
words how many bears can the remaining
habitat support is there enough food to
go around
second the map show where bears will be
foraging at specific times we can
prevent disturbing the Bears and
stressing them out by avoiding these
areas during important feeding periods
finally the maps can be used to predict
the effects of climate change we're
shifting annual temperatures will alter
the rate of plant growth
throwing the Bears precise foraging
schedule out of whack this provides less
food and increases competition between
bears
Grizzly's our CRA's Matic symbols of the
wilderness these habitat maps made from
satellite imagery can not only help
conserve grizzly bears but all sorts of
different species they aid us in
understanding how ecosystems function
where they are threatened and how we can
try to keep our fragile amazing planet
intact
you